Refactored KUDO concepts docs (#171)
kudobuilder/www: content/docs/what-is-kudo.md

# What is KUDO

[[toc]]

## Overview

Kubernetes Universal Declarative Operator (KUDO) provides a declarative approach to building production-grade Kubernetes [operators](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/). To quote the official documentation: _"Operators are software extensions to Kubernetes that make use of custom resources to manage applications and their components"_. While Kubernetes already comes with a lot of built-in automation to run simple workloads, complex scenarios often need a human operator. This is where KUDO is designed to help.

## Motivation

> Building Kubernetes operators is not easy. While existing tools and libraries like [kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/) and [Operator Framework](https://github.com/operator-framework/getting-started) and Kubernetes [control loop](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane) help with some aspects, developing an operator is still quite an undertaking. This is where the KUDO approach differs. It utilizes a Universal and Declarative approach (the UD in KUDO), doesn't require any code and significantly accelerates the development of operators. In a nutshell, KUDO does all the "k8s heavy lifting" allowing the developers to concentrate on the task at hand.

Reviewer: Nit, also applicable to all of our docs: Let's use either "Kubernetes" or "K8s" but not both. I'm in favor of "Kubernetes" everywhere.

Reviewer 2: Agreed to Kubernetes everywhere.

|    |      +-------------|  | | |   |
|    |        +-----------+  | | |   |
|    |                       | | |   |
|    +-----------------------+ | |   |
|      +-----------------------+ |   |
|        +-----------------------+   |
|                                    |
|                                    |
+------------------------------------+
```

Here is an example of a `deploy` plan for some abstract data service, where different node types (_bootstrap, master, agent_) has to be started in a specific serial order:

```text
plan: deploy
├── phase: bootstrap-node
│   └── step: start-bootstrap-node
├── phase: master-nodes
│   └── step: start-master-nodes
└── phase: agent-nodes
│   └── step: start-agent-nodes
└── phase: deploy-cleanup
    └── step: remove-bootstrap-node
```

After the successful deployment, the `bootstrap` node is removed. Each step has to be finished successfully e.g. corresponding nodes are running, healthy (and exposed to the network), before KUDO continues with the execution of the next phase. Learn more about plans by [writing you first operator](???) and take a look at the [operator documentation](???)

## Operator Parameters

> Operators can be customized using proved parameters. Where KUDO differs from a lot fo similar tools: _operator parameters are tied to plans, so that when a parameter changes a plan would be automatically triggered._ Here are two typical parameters for the number of nodes and memory that each node container is using:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Operators can be customized using provided parameters. Where KUDO differs from a lot of similar tools: _operator parameters are tied to plans, so that when a parameter changes a plan would be automatically triggered._ Here are two typical parameters for the number of nodes and memory that each node container is using:
```

I assume `provided` is meant?

## Motivation

Building Kubernetes operators is not easy. While existing tools and libraries like [kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/) and [Operator Framework](https://github.com/operator-framework/getting-started) and Kubernetes [control loop](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane) help with some aspects, developing an operator is still quite an undertaking. This is where the KUDO approach differs. It utilizes a Universal and Declarative approach (the UD in KUDO), doesn't require any code and significantly accelerates the development of operators. In a nutshell, KUDO does all the "Kubernetes heavy lifting" allowing the developers to concentrate on the task at hand.

> ## When would you use KUDO

Reviewer 3: Maybe it makes sense to link to the comparison page from here?

Author: It does! Will add a link
